---
layout: post
title:  "Sleep"
date:   2013-01-22 20:08:14
excerpt: "I had a good week last week."
categories: blog
---

### I had a good week last week.

In fact, I was absolutely ecstatic. Last week I managed to do something which I've been trying to do for over 5 years. Last week I overcame the biggest challenge I've faced in my adult life.

*Last week I managed to get up before 6AM every day.*

Pathetic really isn't it?

I'm not a morning person. I've been plagued with insomnia for as long as I can remember. I've tried varying the time I go to bed, the time I set my alarm, the bedclothes I sleep in, the temperature of the bedroom. None of the above allowed me to achieve a regular sleeping pattern. I've tried herbal remedies, breathing techniques, exercises that are supposed to combat depression. Still nothing.

As I've been working more and more, my level of tiredness has increased, but I still find myself unable to sleep until so late that I cannot get up in the morning. On the occasional day when I have needed to start work early, I've made sure that I'm up in time by not even attempting to sleep the night before. This is fine for the odd day, but faced with a week of early starts, I knew that something had to change.

I spent almost all of my weekend researching sleeping patterns, reading scientific studies, medical journals and white papers. I learnt a lot. I learnt that the average sleep cycle last for 90 minutes, and that it is far easier to wake up if it happens at the end of a sleep cycle. I learnt that if a person is woken, and then immediately goes back to sleep, they enter the deepest kind of sleep - called REM or Rapid-Eye-Movement - meaning that the first one or two sleep cycles after that are equivalent to almost double the rest time when compared to being taken without that short break.

So, as a last resort, I tried something inventive. I made sure that I was in bed by 1AM. I set two alarms, both for 4AM, one on my phone on the opposite side of my bedroom, and the other on my tablet in the hallway outside the room. I set a further alarm on each of these for 5.30AM. At 4AM I awoke, got out of bed to turn of both alarms, and too tired to think of doing anything else, went straight back to bed; the same reaction I've had to my alarm almost every day for 5 years.

5.30AM the first morning.

Imagine my surprise, I was actually awake. For the first time in a long time, I had no urge to jump straight back into bed, despite having been woken unnaturally. I had time. Time to make myself a coffee, eat breakfast, and walk at a leisurely pace to the train station, instead of my usual half-walk-half-run. And I was more awake when I got to work. Despite getting less sleep than usual, I was alert throughout the day; I was more productive; I was *happier*.

All because I'd found a sleep pattern that worked for me, and I'm pleased to say, I've managed to stick to it ever since.