---
layout: post
title:  "Learning"
date:   2013-01-02 03:01:32
excerpt: "An unedited, uncensored brain dump of the most important things that I have learnt in 2012."
categories: blog
---

2012 was a big year for me, with a number of huge changes in both my personal and professional life. I wanted to celebrate the new year with an article about how these changes have improved my life, and made me a better person, but every thought I put down in words came across as pretentious. Instead, I'm just going to list the little lessons that life has taught me over the last year, without editing, re-reading or censoring. 

Here goes:

**Experience is relative** in that I've found that those with less experience in a field are *usually* more up-to-date with the current developments within it, and more willing to push boundaries and think outside the box. Some of the best conversations I've had in the last year were with "rookie" designers, who even managed to teach me a thing or two.

**Giving stuff away** is one of the most fulfilling things you can ever do. I made [a few](http://melody.molovo.co.uk), [cool things](http://thebran.ch) in 2012, and it feels *really* great to know that people find the things that I can do useful.

**Work sucks in every definition**. Which is why, if like me you are lucky enough to be able to do a job that you love, you shouldn't call it work. Call it *living*.

**Alan Watts** was, in my opinion, [the most intelligent man to have ever lived](http://thebran.ch/articles/what-if-money-was-no-object). 

**Maintaining 8 Twitter accounts** gets very annoying very quickly.

**Family is everything**. This needs no explanation.

**Staying up all night** is sometimes the best way to ensure you're up early in the morning.

**A person's success** can only be judged by themselves. If you've achieved something that you set out to do, however small, whatever the reason for doing it, and whatever other people's opinions, give yourself a pat on the back from me.

**There is absolutely nothing** that *cannot* be achieved if you put enough effort in.

**There is absolutely nothing** that *can* be achieved without putting in any effort at all.

**Having an addiction** is only a burden if you let it be one. I'm a smoker, and over the last few months, I've forced myself to complete a task, such as writing a certain amount of code, or replying to all my emails/tweets before I allow myself a cigarette. I now work quicker and more efficiently, and smoke a lot less. Win, win.

**Home cooked food**, however simple, is always better than ready meals.

**Having no coffee** is always better than having bad coffee.

**If you need help** just ask. There are nice people out there somewhere, honest.

**If giving help**, give it to those who deserve it. People who ask for advice and then ignore or dismiss it when given aren't worth your time. Also, those who listen to any advice you give them are far more likely to return the favour in future.

**Chasing happiness** is a misleading concept. If you're chasing it, chances are you'll never catch it. Instead, *Grab happiness by the balls and don't let go*.